README.md, before:

# Downstream

## Saves Microsoft Stream videos

This project was originally based on [Destreamer](https://github.com/snobu/destreamer)  
Fork powered by @sup3rgiu (https://github.com/sup3rgiu/PoliDown)  
Further adaptation by @stignarnia

**This program does not work if your school or workplace uses a custom Single Sign On like Shibboleth, in that case give a look at the links above**  
  
**It has been tested in the following schools or workplaces (feel free to add yours if you used this successfully)**
* Humanitas University

## PREREQUISITES
If you don't know what these are just keep reading

* [**Node.js**](https://nodejs.org/it/download/): anything above v8.0 seems to work.
* [**aria2**](https://github.com/aria2/aria2/releases): this needs to be in your `$PATH` (for example, copy `aria2c.exe` to `C:\Windows`). PoliDown calls `aria2c` with a bunch of arguments in order to improve the download speed.
* [**ffmpeg**](https://www.ffmpeg.org/download.html): a recent version (year 2019 or above), in [`$PATH`](https://www.thewindowsclub.com/how-to-install-ffmpeg-on-windows-10). Please note that if you have an old version in a folder that is also in `$PATH`, that is the one that will be called, thus generating errors.

## INSTALLATION AND USAGE

* Click on `code`, then `Download ZIP`
* Extract the content in the folder you prefer, we'll call it `installationfolder`

If you are on Windows keep reading, otherwise google how to get the prerequisites, then skip to command line usage

* Follow the tutorial below until the succesful execution of the `npm install` command
* double click on the `Downstream Launcher.bat` file and enjoy

### WINDOWS TUTORIAL
**N.B:** ffmpeg.zeranoe.com closed since Sep 18, 2020. If you are following the video tutorial, download ffmpeg from another source available on the [ffmpeg website](https://www.ffmpeg.org/download.html) (nightly build is no longer required)

**N.B:** This video was made for [PoliDown](https://github.com/sup3rgiu/PoliDown), ignore everything after the succesful execution of the `npm install` command

***[Tutorial on Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iZgea4t5YW4)***

### COMMAND LINE USAGE

Default usage:
```
$ node downstream.js -u USERNAME -p PASSWORD -v "https://web.microsoftstream.com/video/VIDEO-1"
```

Show options:
```
$ node downstream.js -h

Options:
  --version              Show version number                           [boolean]
  -v, --videoUrls                                                      [array]
  -f, --videoUrlsFile    Path to txt file containing the URLs (one URL for each line) [string]
  -u, --username         name.surname@example.com                 [string] [required]
  -p, --password                                                  [string] [required]
  -o, --outputDirectory                             		[string] [default: "installationfolder/videos"]
  -q, --quality          Video Quality [0-5]                            [number]
  -h, --help             Show help                                     [boolean]
```

Multiple videos download:
```
$ node downstream.js -u USERNAME -p PASSWORD
    -v "https://web.microsoftstream.com/video/VIDEO-1"
                "https://web.microsoftstream.com/video/VIDEO-2"
                "https://web.microsoftstream.com/video/VIDEO-3"
```

Download from TXT file (one link per line):
```
$ node downstream.js -u USERNAME -p PASSWORD -f "/my/path/here/links.txt"
```

Define default video quality [0-5] (to avoid manual prompt for each video):
```
$ node downstream.js -u USERNAME -p PASSWORD -v "https://web.microsoftstream.com/video/VIDEO-1" -q 4
```

Output directory (relative or absoulte path):
```
$ node downstream.js -u USERNAME -p PASSWORD -v "https://web.microsoftstream.com/video/VIDEO-1" -o "/my/path/here"
```

## EXPECTED OUTPUT

```
Project originally based on https://github.com/snobu/destreamer
Fork powered by @sup3rgiu (https://github.com/sup3rgiu/PoliDown)
Further adaptation by @stignarnia
Using aria2 version ARIA2VERSION
Using ffmpeg version FFMPEGVERSION

Launching headless Chrome to perform the OpenID Connect dance...
Navigating to Microsoft login page...
We are logged in.

Start downloading video: https://web.microsoftstream.com/video/VIDEO-1
Got required authentication cookies.
Looking up AMS stream locator...

Video title is: VIDEOTITLE

[0] 320x180
[1] 480x270
[2] 640x360
[3] 960x540
[4] 1280x720
[5] 1920x1080
Choose the desired resolution: CHOSENRES

dd/mm hh:mm:ss [NOTICE] Downloading ITEMS item(s)

[...]

At this point Chrome's job is done, shutting it down...
Done!
```

The video is now saved under `installationfolder/videos`, or whatever the `outputDirectory` argument points to.

Commit message:

Added macOS and Linux instructions

README.md, after:

# Downstream

## Saves Microsoft Stream videos

This project was originally based on [Destreamer](https://github.com/snobu/destreamer)  
Fork powered by @sup3rgiu (https://github.com/sup3rgiu/PoliDown)  
Further adaptation by @stignarnia

**This program does not work if your school or workplace uses a custom Single Sign On like Shibboleth, in that case give a look at the links above**  
  
**It has been tested in the following schools or workplaces (feel free to add yours if you used this successfully)**
* Humanitas University

## PREREQUISITES
If you don't know what these are just keep reading

* [**Node.js**](https://nodejs.org/it/download/): anything above v8.0 seems to work.
* [**aria2**](https://github.com/aria2/aria2/releases): this needs to be in your `$PATH` (for example, copy `aria2c.exe` to `C:\Windows`). PoliDown calls `aria2c` with a bunch of arguments in order to improve the download speed.
* [**ffmpeg**](https://www.ffmpeg.org/download.html): a recent version (year 2019 or above), in [`$PATH`](https://www.thewindowsclub.com/how-to-install-ffmpeg-on-windows-10). Please note that if you have an old version in a folder that is also in `$PATH`, that is the one that will be called, thus generating errors.

## INSTALLATION AND USAGE

* Click on `code`, then `Download ZIP`
* Extract the content in the folder you prefer, we'll call it `installationfolder`

If you are on Windows keep reading, otherwise skip to macOS or Linux

* Follow the tutorial below until the succesful execution of the `npm install` command
* Double click on the `Downstream Launcher.bat` file and enjoy

### Windows tutorial
**N.B:** ffmpeg.zeranoe.com closed since Sep 18, 2020. If you are following the video tutorial, download ffmpeg from another source available on the [ffmpeg website](https://www.ffmpeg.org/download.html) (nightly build is no longer required)

**N.B:** This video was made for [PoliDown](https://github.com/sup3rgiu/PoliDown), ignore everything after the succesful execution of the `npm install` command

***[Tutorial on Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iZgea4t5YW4)***

### macOS (Mojave and above, including Big Sur on M1 (arm64))

* [Install Homebrew](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=31eTw5xRHBA)
* Give it these two commands: `brew install ffmpeg` and `brew install aria2`
* [Install Node.js](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0i-gstqgjuE)
* Staying in terminal, follow the instruction under command line usage

### Linux

Come on, you have Linux, you know how to do this stuff, anyway on Ubuntu (or any Debian based distro I guess), this works:

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get install nodejs
sudo apt-get install npm
sudo apt-get install ffmpeg
sudo apt-get install aria2
```
Then follow command line usage

### COMMAND LINE USAGE

Default usage:
```
node downstream.js -u USERNAME -p PASSWORD -v "https://web.microsoftstream.com/video/VIDEO-1"
```

Show options:
```
node downstream.js -h

Options:
  --version              Show version number                           [boolean]
  -v, --videoUrls                                                      [array]
  -f, --videoUrlsFile    Path to txt file containing the URLs (one URL for each line) [string]
  -u, --username         name.surname@example.com                 [string] [required]
  -p, --password                                                  [string] [required]
  -o, --outputDirectory                             		[string] [default: "installationfolder/videos"]
  -q, --quality          Video Quality [0-5]                            [number]
  -h, --help             Show help                                     [boolean]
```

Multiple videos download:
```
node downstream.js -u USERNAME -p PASSWORD
    -v "https://web.microsoftstream.com/video/VIDEO-1"
                "https://web.microsoftstream.com/video/VIDEO-2"
                "https://web.microsoftstream.com/video/VIDEO-3"
```

Download from TXT file (one link per line):
```
node downstream.js -u USERNAME -p PASSWORD -f "/my/path/here/links.txt"
```

Define default video quality [0-5] (to avoid manual prompt for each video):
```
node downstream.js -u USERNAME -p PASSWORD -v "https://web.microsoftstream.com/video/VIDEO-1" -q 4
```

Output directory (relative or absoulte path):
```
node downstream.js -u USERNAME -p PASSWORD -v "https://web.microsoftstream.com/video/VIDEO-1" -o "/my/path/here"
```

## EXPECTED OUTPUT

```
Project originally based on https://github.com/snobu/destreamer
Fork powered by @sup3rgiu (https://github.com/sup3rgiu/PoliDown)
Further adaptation by @stignarnia
Using aria2 version ARIA2VERSION
Using ffmpeg version FFMPEGVERSION

Launching headless Chrome to perform the OpenID Connect dance...
Navigating to Microsoft login page...
We are logged in.

Start downloading video: https://web.microsoftstream.com/video/VIDEO-1
Got required authentication cookies.
Looking up AMS stream locator...

Video title is: VIDEOTITLE

[0] 320x180
[1] 480x270
[2] 640x360
[3] 960x540
[4] 1280x720
[5] 1920x1080
Choose the desired resolution: CHOSENRES

dd/mm hh:mm:ss [NOTICE] Downloading ITEMS item(s)

[...]

At this point Chrome's job is done, shutting it down...
Done!
```

The video is now saved under `installationfolder/videos`, or whatever the `outputDirectory` argument points to.
